
Anuj Bhargava is a computer science engineer from India. In the last five years, he has carried out projects in the areas of web, mobile, enterprise solution, and embedded system software development. He has worked with a multinational technology company, an Indian IT consulting company, on a research project for the government, and also launched a venture in website development and web analytics. These experiences have familiarised him with the challenges in various stages of the software development lifecycle, and has exposed him to business and organization development projects.
Anuj became interested in business and data analytics while handling large scale data processing for a client in the telecommunication industry, and while developing IT solutions for its business intelligence teams. The increased emphasis on analysing not only traditional data sources such as Call Data Records, but also unrelated, unstructured data sources such as network logs, geo-location data, weather data, etc., and their use in predicting customer behaviour accurately, and optimizing telecom operations piqued his interest in the field. His desire to learn about how commerce and research was being transformed by data-driven discovery and prediction brought him to the MSiA program at Northwestern University.
Analytics is an interdisciplinary field combining business, technology, and mathematics. Through the MSiA program, he hopes to gain a core understanding of its various areasstatistical analysis and modelling, data management, text mining, machine learning, distributed systems, visualization, and optimization techniques. The experiential learning component of this program, which gives opportunities to work on real-life analytics problems, excites him. This experience would teach him how to ask pertinent questions about the data he has, envision what it might tell him, extract the relevant information, and combine it in different ways to create value from it.
In the future, with growing trust in cloud delivery models to reduce infrastructure costs, he sees governments, nonprofit organizations, and businesses relying heavily on analytics to devise efficient policies and improve their productivity. Post-MS, he plans to work on a variety of analytics problems and apply his scientific training of tools and techniques to organizational data sets to discover unknown patterns, obtain predictive insights, and create data products that build confidence in decisions that drive businesses.


