
MSiA 490-20 / Ling 400 Homework 0Berk Bozoklar Bio:I grew up in Izmir, Turkey. Izmir is a nice city by the west coast of Izmir. Contrary to Chicago, the weather is usually hot. People enjoy the weather by running, biking and water sports. So it took me some time to adapt to windy city. Fascinated by the thought of designing and building things, I came to United States after graduating high school. I got accepted to George Washington University with an engineering scholarship. I decided to become a biomedical engineer because of my interest in biology, which comes from both my parents being doctors. I graduated as a biomedical engineer with a minor in applied mathematics. During this time, I got a chance to learn analytical thinking and to develop my programming skill set. As an undergrad, my internship as a data analyst in BP's sales department, and my work as a signal analysis/reporting in a senior design project at George Washington University played an essential role in developing an interest in machine learning and predictive analytics.I recognized that MSiA at Northwestern University gave me an opportunity to enhance my analytical, quantitative, and programming skills in the analytics field. I believe that analytics is a growing, dynamic field that has potential to branch out its focus to different fields such as risk management, market analytics and operation research within companies and research fields. Coming from engineering major, I am enthusiastic about trying to apply analytics to industry in a positive way that can provide.As a part of MSiA at Northwestern University, I am thrilled and looking forward to working and learning with people who share similar interests and passions about analytics and data science. I hope to use the analytical skills I gain in the MSiA program to help companies and organizations utilize their data and transform them into valuable and meaningful data driven solutions to challenging problems that can make a difference in the world.I become interested text analytics after seeing the uses of text analytics in social media. I am so amazed by the potential of impact making analysis of social media data. Social media creates a platform for people to express themselves about events in life and you can record other peoples reaction to that. I believe this creates a great potential for analysis that can lead to data driven solutions by understanding the data present at social media which is text data.
