
I grew up in the small town of West Brookfield, Massachusetts, but generally when people ask Where are you from?, I say Worcester.
I moved there when I was 18 and still consider the seven years I spent working as a cabinet maker, a musician, and a board member of
 a small non-profit my most formative years.  In 2008, the housing market began to take a dive and so did the market for custom cabinetry.
It was at this time that I decided I take a chance on getting a college education.

I worked three part-time jobs (contractor, lab assistant, rock climbing instructor) when I first attended community
 college and quickly realized that while I was interested in working with computers,
I was more interested in human-computer interactions.  Eventually, I began working with Jeremy Birnholtz and Jeff Hancock on a project
that sought to understand the role of deception in text messaging and a phenomenon they called Butler Lies.  This project got me very
interested in text analysis and how the information derived from text data was connected with real human social behavior.
 I continued this work in my undergraduate honors thesis where I attempted to create a predictive model of deception in
text messaging to further understand its role and prevalence.  While the ultimate conclusion was simply that the main
 lies that can accurately be detected are those that may seem obvious, such as Im on my way, it helped support the
argument that when people are able to hide their context (where they really are, what they are really doing), they
will often employ deception as a strategy in social life management.

Upon graduation, I received the Data Science for Social Good fellowship where I worked on a project which used co-occurrence
matrices of keywords in a corpus of job postings and resumes to understand the real supply and demand of skills in the job
market.  This fellowship exposed me to many different kind of data analyses and their pros and cons.  When I began at Northwestern University
as a student in Technology and Social Behavior, I wanted to better understand how these data analyses can help or hurt research and development
in sociotechnical systems which is why much of my current research employs a mixed methods approach with both quantitative data analysis and
qualitative interviews with the participants who volunteered the data.

In the future, I hope to begin bridging the gap between the design of algorithms used for context sensing and personal
informatics and the user interactions that typically generate the data used in these algorithms.  My hypothesis is that
a well designed user interaction can further the goals of the participant while simultaneously making the learning
problem more tractable for machine learning algorithms in context-sensing.  I believe that if both application
design and research begin seeing these as inseparable problems, then we begin developing context-sensing applications
that truly help individuals with the kind of self-reflection and self-monitoring needed for treating mental
illness such as those used in cognitive behavioral therapy.

