
Originally from New York, Michelle moved to Pittsburgh to pursue a B.S. in Mathematical Science with a minor in Business Administration from Carnegie Mellon University.  After graduating from Carnegie Mellon University, Michelle began a career as a Systems Integration Consultant. As a consultant, she was able to work across many technologies and several different industries in both a technical and business capacity.  

For her first assignment, she fulfilled the role of a data quality analyst for a global insurance company in Hartford, Connecticut. Michelle was responsible for creating and monitoring data quality reports, in order to execute data remediation solutions to improve the usability of the data. Immediately following her role as a data quality analyst, Michelle focused on delivering a Pega Customer Relationship Management solution for a regional health insurance provider in Detroit, Michigan. As the integration and data architect, Michelle designed the flow of data from several sources to populate the front end of the CRM screens, as well as the communications that were required between Pega and the external integrated systems. Michelles most recent engagement was working with a diversified multinational mass media corporation in Burbank, California to research the current state of the clients data solutions across several business segments to create a unified data strategy, as well as a roadmap to provide direction for the implementation of the new organizational strategy.

While Michelle has gained valuable experience consulting, she is extremely excited to continue her academic journey in analytics. Given the important value that analytics can provide to a variety of industries, Michelle is looking forward to examining the statistical methods, models, and technologies in depth that support the data science and analytics fields, in order to improve efficiency, quality control, and profitability. Text analytics is an extremely important component in the field of data science.  Text analytics allows for the expansion from structured data analysis to unstructured analysis of web pages, documents, emails, etc. 

For the future, Michelle is looking to apply data science techniques to solve difficult business problems.  She is excited to be in the forefront of an innovative field.   
