
I am currently doing my phd in Industrial Engineering and management Sciences at Northwestern University. I obtained my bachelor and master degree in Industrial Engineering in South Korea, which means that my native language is Korean. During undergrad I was very interested in data analysis and statistics. This led me to continue to pursue master degree in field of applied statistics. My research during master degree is about quality improvement in semiconductor manufacturing process. I developed a statistic that can decide if there are serious defects in the production process. After obtaining master degree I started working at a car parts manufacturing company, a part of Hyundai motors group, in South Korea. My main job at work was to take care of the quality of the car parts that are exported to European countries. While I was working there, I realized that my knowledge is not sufficient and I would like to be specialized in a field. I decided to pursue phd. During my first year in graduate study at Northwestern University, I become more interested in optimization methodologies. To combine my interests in optimization and data analysis I started doing research that I solve optimization problems in the field of machine learning.  I am currently solving classification problems that incorporates Restricted Boltzmann Machine that is normally used to initialize weight in network models. To verify my methods, I consider many problems such as images and documents classification. When I deal with text data, I found that it is not easy to create feature vectors from unstructured text. Since I have limited knowledge about languages it was hard for me to understand concepts and vocabulary used in linguistics. In addition, I realized that text analytics is really important since the performance of the model is highly dependent on the extracted features. That is, even if I have a nice mathematical model accurate classification cannot be obtained without well-defined features. In this sense, I really need to know how to deal with text data. My goal regarding text analytics is to develop new mathematical models that works well in text as well as image data. Furthermore, I would like to develop new feature extractors that can be used for my math models.
