
MSiA Text Analytics - Hw0 - Luis Steven Lin

I am from Chicago, IL and completed my undergraduate degree at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. During my studies, I had the opportunity to gain consulting experience through various industrial and academic projects. In addition, I also had the opportunity to do internships with Fortune 500 companies and family-owned businesses in diverse industries ranging from paper, metal and telecommunication to airline, entertainment and transportation. However, a common theme during my academic and professional career was turning data into actionable insights. Although I found myself with a wealth of data at my fingertips, I felt limited by the sheer size and unstructured nature of the data.  I felt at the time that I didnt have a solid understanding of the mathematics and IT skills required to analyze complex data-related problems. 

My interest in the emerging field of Data Science and Analytics brought to the Master of Science in Analytics at Northwestern University. The opportunity to learn how to successfully leverage unstructured and user-generated data intrigues me. I believe there has never been a more exciting time in the world of data. We now have the capability and tools to use data like never before. I have always been curious about the underlying story behind the data. I find it fascinating how one can combine rigorous analysis and creativity to find relationships among variables, detect trends and spot patterns to uncover insights that are hidden within the data. 
One of the topics I am very interested is text analytics. With the growth of the Internet, mobile devices and increase interaction of people with technologies that generate data, analyzing text data has become a new valuable and rich source of data. For example, I have done projects were analyzing customer reviews (e.g. Yelp) provided additional insights that other sources of data did not. I have also worked on a project to automate question and answering system that was very interesting. I am very interesting in learning how to efficiently process text data and find creative uses. 
With the explosion of data generated by people across the globe and the development of the Internet of Things, I hope to use the knowledge and skills learned in the MSiA program to harness the data, create data-driven products and improve peoples lives. 

