
Ling 400  Text Analytics
Francisco Maravilla
Hw 0  Bio

	I am originally from Denver Colorado, a city which (I must submit as a clearly unbiased observer) is one of the finest in this great republic. I majored in Cognitive Psychology at Stanford University, with a focus in the cognitive sciences where I first had the opportunity to work with some of the topics well be dealing with in this class. In particular I was fascinated by the opportunity to use machine languages to understand and analyze the symbolic systems that are central to human cognition. I studied both the cognitive and discourse-focused aspects of human language, as well as the way computational  linguistics approaches some of these topics. After college I took a brief interlude working in clinical research for the Department of Veterans Affairs, back in Denver, though my interest in cognition and language didnt flag much. Ultimately after having pursued research for two years I recognized that answering my own research questions would be the most rewarding use of my time I decided to pursue a PhD in psychology. Given that some of the work of my college adviser, Lera Boroditsky, was influenced by her time working at Northwestern, I applied to work with Dedre Gentner studying the cognitive mechanisms behind language. 
	My interest in text analytics stems from a desire to increase the range and capability of my research. There are many techniques being used in psycholinguistic study, especially computational ones, which I havent had the opportunity to work with, and ones that my adviser is also relatively unfamiliar with. A healthy understanding of text analytics and the computational theories that make it possible can only serve to bolster my research abilities. On a personal note I also thoroughly enjoy the logical challenges designing programs presents. I have always been someone who loves puzzles and I consider many of the topics in machine learning simply complicated puzzles that demand answer. While ultimately I hope to make use of these techniques in my own research, I relish the opportunity to simply tackle a difficult topic.

