
I am currently in my third year at Northwestern, where I am getting a PhD in Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences. I grew up primarily in Kansas, in a suburb outside of Kansas City. Accordingly I am a big Kansas City Royals baseball fan, as well as a devout follower of the Kansas Jayhawks basketball team. I left Kansas for college, and since then have lived in Boston, Moscow, Madison, and (for the last 5 years) Chicago. Between finishing my undergraduate degree and starting my current program, I spent six years working in addition to finishing a masters degree. I had jobs with the Russian Academy of Sciences, the 2008 Obama campaign, and as a management consultant. My current research has nothing to do with text analytics. I am looking at the optimal pricing of electricity. Currently, most electricity retailers charge a flat rate per kilowatt hour to their residential customers. Slightly more complicated rates are charged to larger commercial and industrial customers. However, inefficiencies arise because the prices charged to consumers do not accurately reflect the cost to purchase the electricity from generators. Smarter pricing, combined with advanced metering infrastructure and smarter devices, would allow end-use consumers to respond to fluctuations in the cost. This has the potential to improve grid stability and, even more importantly, bring down peak demand, allowing us to avoid overbuilding capacity. However, I am interested in learning about the tools of text analytics for potential future projects. Separately, I am curious about potential applications of my field (optimization) in the field of linguistics. I am interested in languages; this has manifested in my study of Latin, Russian, Portuguese, and Spanish to varying degrees of fluency. I also like reading about historical linguistics and etymology. For instance, I was recently looking into mathematical models of language extinction. I have not looked seriously at computational linguistics, but am interested in reading more.
