
Jung-Hee Oh Biography

I grew up in the Hudson Valley in New York and graduated from Wesleyan University with a B.A. in music. I then spent my professional life in  New York City after graduating. Much of this early era of my life doesnt have a lot to do with my interest in analytics, but a lot of it makes for very interesting dinner party conversation.I started the MSiA program after working at the Innocence Project, a non-profit organization dedicated to using DNA litigation to overturn wrongful convictions and implementing policy reforms to prevent further injustice. While serving as the Legal Operations Coordinator for the legal department there, I was tasked with implementing changes to the department's case management system due to the organization's growing need for data collection and analysis. This began my interest in the intersection of data analysis and the justice system. While I continued to work at the Innocence Project, I completed my second bachelor's degree in statistics at Hunter College. This background brought me to the MSiA program, where I wanted to learn more about the practical aspects and skills involved in applying data analysis.My interest in text analytics originated in my work in the legal field, where I spent much of my time with text documents and conducting projects primarily related to digesting large amounts of text or finding crucial and specific information from a large volume of text. I began to suspect that there could be more efficient ways of doing some of these projects, without knowing much of what was really technologically possible. Im still not entirely sure of the extent of whats possible and reliable in this application, but my capstone project and this class will help to start answering those questions.Im currently searching for a data science position in the Bay Area for life-after-MSIA. I hope to eventually return to public service work, but want to use my time immediately after graduation to gain experience at a company where data science is an essential part of its function and learn from those more experienced in this field.
