
MSiA 490-20 / Ling 400: Homework 0
Student Name: Ahsan Rehman
Where youre from: I am originally from Pakistan, born in Islamabad the capital city of the country.
What brought you to your current graduate program (e.g., MSiA)  I strongly believe without the right analytic capability, the sheer volume of data and the complex system that house it, will simply increase cost and inefficiency with little insight. While with my practical experience coupled with the modern academic tools of analytics that I hope to gain during this Masters Degree, I can leverage the power of analytics to solve business and research problems aiming to quickly validate assumptions, providing the right statistical analysis and deliver flexible solutions for various business problems.
What did you do before this program: I graduated from the National University of Sciences and Technology, Pakistan with a Bachelors degree in Information Technology in 2012. As a student, I continuously probed different areas that appealed to me as potential areas of research. Hence, in addition to the standard courses offered in the program, I opted for research at the IBMs Linux Competency Center in the domain of business intelligence and advance analytics. The project I worked involved extensive use of data-mining techniques for stock price prediction and its relation with different economic variables. Later when it came to applying my interests professionally, I was fortunate enough to land himself with an offer from IBM. An industrial project on churn prediction and behavioral segmentation for a well-known Telco was about to commence, when I was asked to join the IBMs Advanced Analytics & Big Data competency. The core focus during this project remained on an in-depth analysis of the data for better pre-processing and using optimized predictive modeling techniques to improve overall model accuracy. Later I worked on some of the key assignments at IBM U.S.A which involved extensive unstructured data for Operational Analytics, some of the notable clients are listed in global 50 financial services corporations. All this professional work and past research has upsurge my passion for descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics using multiple statistical analysis, data mining and machine learning techniques.
When did you become interested in text analytics: At IBM a significant amount of my time was spent with unstructured data for analysis and modeling. The data could be in the form of customer comments or help desk tickets where I was required to identify chronic issues for high frequency tickets and problem/resolver groups from unstructured fields using text mining techniques like text cleansing, document classification and concept mining. This developed my interest to look deeper into different text analytical techniques which could better explain the context of this data.
What are your plans for the future: My target is to evolve systems which provide timely data analysis by offering a clear view of the present and a deeper insight into the future which can help companies in better strategy and planning.
Whatever else you want to include: Interested in cognitive analytics and exploring advanced topics/techniques in text analytics
