
My name is Igor. I moved to the Chicago area from Russia when I was four, and have lived here since. I knew that I was interested in 
analytics coming out of my undergraduate program in Economics at Northwestern, and I felt that the MSiA program would help me find a job
as a data scientist. Before the program I worked in consulting for two years. I became interseted in text analytics through the short introductions
to it we have had in other MSiA courses. In the future I plan to build some predictive models. 

Here is my resume:
Education
Master of Science in Analytics 	Expected December 2015	
	Northwestern University, McCormick School of Engineering, Evanston IL  
	GPA: 3.95/4.00
	Completed coursework includes: Statistical Methods, Data Mining, Predictive Analytics, Optimization & Heuristics, Java, Python, Hadoop
	Course Projects:
	Investigated the factors determining sales outcomes for a software product for GE Healthcare using logistic regression and other predictive modeling techniques
	Completed an 8-month industry practicum project investigating the factors determining paper vs. paperless billing uptake for We Energies
Bachelor of Arts in Economics	June 2012	
	Northwestern University, Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences, Evanston IL  
	Majors:  Economics and International Studies, Minor: Statistics
	Cumulative GPA: 3.45/4.00 
	Extra-Curricular: Treasurer at Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity  (March 2011  March 2012 )	
 

Professional Experience	
Nielsen  Data Science Intern 	June 2015  Present	
	Investigated Principal Component Analysis methodology used for Fusion of large datasets 
Beghou Consulting - Senior Analyst 	July 2013  August 2014
	Lead development of SAS and VBA code for an existing sales report in Excel delivered to over 1,500 users and communicated with the client to respond to their needs as necessary
	Assisted in a customer targeting project by maintaining and developing reports, processing data collected from a web based tool, and contributing to updates for the targeting model and to ad-hoc analysis. Investigated the effect of changing parameters on the model output.
Beghou Consulting - Analyst	July 2012  July 2013
	Maintained and developed VBA code for a sales report in Excel 
	Developed a Unix shell script for running SAS code on a client machine
Obama for America - Analytics Intern	January 2012  June 2012
	Assisted full time staff on the Statistical Modeling Team with constructing logistic regression models of voter turnout and support
	Collected government survey data and helped to build and validate statistical models
Northwestern University, School of Education and Social Policy - Research Assistant 	July 2010  October 2011
	Assisted with STATA programming to acquire and prepare data for projects investigating the effects of educational tracking on student outcomes and math instruction in elementary schools. 
 
Language
 Russian (Spoken: Fluent, Written/Read: Intermediate)	 Spanish (Spoken/Written/Read: Basic)      
Programming Skills
 VBA	 SAS        	Python	R	Hadoop
Unix/Shell	 STATA	 SQL    	 Java    	Spark

