I originally comes from Mainland China and graduated from the University of Minnesota  Twin Cities with a BA in statistics and a BSB in finance. During my undergraduate studies, I started the journey from finance and explored my interests in other business analytics fields.
I have my main focus on financial analytics and has interned with commercial and investment banks. In my senior year, I worked as a fixed income analyst at Carlson Funds Enterprise, where I took care of the consumer non-cyclical sector. I developed financial models, compared bonds, and updated earning reports to monitor credit qualities. During the last semester, I began to work as an analytics intern at Allen Edmonds. As a part of an e-commerce team, I supported the department director in product expansions, inventory, search engine, and shopping site optimizations. 
I became interested in text analytics during the first quarter at MSiA program where we need to parse text from resume. I found the importance and fun of text analytics.
Through my internships, I realized the potential and need of analytics. As a graduate student in the Analytics program at Northwestern, I am excited to learn the applications of analytics in industry, where I can predict, optimize, and visualize data to provide business solutions.
hw0: Alejandro Avalos Mar
I was born in Tucson, Arizona, raised in Mexico and moved in 09 to Kelowna, BC, Canada to pursue my undergraduate degree. I attended The University of British Columbia, and graduated with a BSc. in Economics, with a minor in Mathematics and Statistics. I am extremely interested in sabermetrics (sports analytics), and it is the reason I discovered my passion for analytics and data science. After I completed my bachelors degree, I came straight to MSiA. Prior to coming to MSiA, I was an intern for Big Surf, a beer company in Canada, as an Operations Intern. My main focus was to document and overview their brewing process.
I became interested in Text Analytics last academic year when I read a very interesting article that said the sentiment, or mood, of tweets could predict stock movement. I was really intrigued by this article, and since then I have wanted to dig in deeper in the text analytics field.
These are some of the projects and companies I have worked during the MSiA program:

- Motorola Mobility (practicum)  Worked in a clustering project where we were segmenting their users based on customer behavior.
- Tampa Bay Rays (Summer Internship)  Worked as a Baseball Analytics Intern in their Baseball Operation and R&amp;D department. My main project was to help their international development and scouting division, by trying to build predictive models that could asses how good of a player a 16 year old would be (age when the international players are signed) when they reach their prime years (~25-26 years old).
- Anjoui  This is a start-up created from NUventions Analytics (I took this class instead of Python). We are a company that connects cooks with local diners looking for a fresh and home cooked meal at an affordable price.

In the near future, I would love to be part of a sports team managing their analytics endeavors. I am also extremely interested in the tech, retail and tourism industry, specifically in Marketing and Sales. I would also love to enroll in an MBA program after gaining 5-10 years of working experience after MSiA. I believe that an MBA will truly complement the skills I am gaining at MSiA.
Anuj Bhargava is a computer science engineer from India. In the last five years, he has carried out projects in the areas of web, mobile, enterprise solution, and embedded system software development. He has worked with a multinational technology company, an Indian IT consulting company, on a research project for the government, and also launched a venture in website development and web analytics. These experiences have familiarised him with the challenges in various stages of the software development lifecycle, and has exposed him to business and organization development projects.
Anuj became interested in business and data analytics while handling large scale data processing for a client in the telecommunication industry, and while developing IT solutions for its business intelligence teams. The increased emphasis on analysing not only traditional data sources such as Call Data Records, but also unrelated, unstructured data sources such as network logs, geo-location data, weather data, etc., and their use in predicting customer behaviour accurately, and optimizing telecom operations piqued his interest in the field. His desire to learn about how commerce and research was being transformed by data-driven discovery and prediction brought him to the MSiA program at Northwestern University.
Analytics is an interdisciplinary field combining business, technology, and mathematics. Through the MSiA program, he hopes to gain a core understanding of its various areasstatistical analysis and modelling, data management, text mining, machine learning, distributed systems, visualization, and optimization techniques. The experiential learning component of this program, which gives opportunities to work on real-life analytics problems, excites him. This experience would teach him how to ask pertinent questions about the data he has, envision what it might tell him, extract the relevant information, and combine it in different ways to create value from it.
In the future, with growing trust in cloud delivery models to reduce infrastructure costs, he sees governments, nonprofit organizations, and businesses relying heavily on analytics to devise efficient policies and improve their productivity. Post-MS, he plans to work on a variety of analytics problems and apply his scientific training of tools and techniques to organizational data sets to discover unknown patterns, obtain predictive insights, and create data products that build confidence in decisions that drive businesses.


MSiA 490-20 / Ling 400 Homework 0Berk Bozoklar Bio:I grew up in Izmir, Turkey. Izmir is a nice city by the west coast of Izmir. Contrary to Chicago, the weather is usually hot. People enjoy the weather by running, biking and water sports. So it took me some time to adapt to windy city. Fascinated by the thought of designing and building things, I came to United States after graduating high school. I got accepted to George Washington University with an engineering scholarship. I decided to become a biomedical engineer because of my interest in biology, which comes from both my parents being doctors. I graduated as a biomedical engineer with a minor in applied mathematics. During this time, I got a chance to learn analytical thinking and to develop my programming skill set. As an undergrad, my internship as a data analyst in BP's sales department, and my work as a signal analysis/reporting in a senior design project at George Washington University played an essential role in developing an interest in machine learning and predictive analytics.I recognized that MSiA at Northwestern University gave me an opportunity to enhance my analytical, quantitative, and programming skills in the analytics field. I believe that analytics is a growing, dynamic field that has potential to branch out its focus to different fields such as risk management, market analytics and operation research within companies and research fields. Coming from engineering major, I am enthusiastic about trying to apply analytics to industry in a positive way that can provide.As a part of MSiA at Northwestern University, I am thrilled and looking forward to working and learning with people who share similar interests and passions about analytics and data science. I hope to use the analytical skills I gain in the MSiA program to help companies and organizations utilize their data and transform them into valuable and meaningful data driven solutions to challenging problems that can make a difference in the world.I become interested text analytics after seeing the uses of text analytics in social media. I am so amazed by the potential of impact making analysis of social media data. Social media creates a platform for people to express themselves about events in life and you can record other peoples reaction to that. I believe this creates a great potential for analysis that can lead to data driven solutions by understanding the data present at social media which is text data.
I grew up in the small town of West Brookfield, Massachusetts, but generally when people ask Where are you from?, I say Worcester.
I moved there when I was 18 and still consider the seven years I spent working as a cabinet maker, a musician, and a board member of
 a small non-profit my most formative years.  In 2008, the housing market began to take a dive and so did the market for custom cabinetry.
It was at this time that I decided I take a chance on getting a college education.

I worked three part-time jobs (contractor, lab assistant, rock climbing instructor) when I first attended community
 college and quickly realized that while I was interested in working with computers,
I was more interested in human-computer interactions.  Eventually, I began working with Jeremy Birnholtz and Jeff Hancock on a project
that sought to understand the role of deception in text messaging and a phenomenon they called Butler Lies.  This project got me very
interested in text analysis and how the information derived from text data was connected with real human social behavior.
 I continued this work in my undergraduate honors thesis where I attempted to create a predictive model of deception in
text messaging to further understand its role and prevalence.  While the ultimate conclusion was simply that the main
 lies that can accurately be detected are those that may seem obvious, such as Im on my way, it helped support the
argument that when people are able to hide their context (where they really are, what they are really doing), they
will often employ deception as a strategy in social life management.

Upon graduation, I received the Data Science for Social Good fellowship where I worked on a project which used co-occurrence
matrices of keywords in a corpus of job postings and resumes to understand the real supply and demand of skills in the job
market.  This fellowship exposed me to many different kind of data analyses and their pros and cons.  When I began at Northwestern University
as a student in Technology and Social Behavior, I wanted to better understand how these data analyses can help or hurt research and development
in sociotechnical systems which is why much of my current research employs a mixed methods approach with both quantitative data analysis and
qualitative interviews with the participants who volunteered the data.

In the future, I hope to begin bridging the gap between the design of algorithms used for context sensing and personal
informatics and the user interactions that typically generate the data used in these algorithms.  My hypothesis is that
a well designed user interaction can further the goals of the participant while simultaneously making the learning
problem more tractable for machine learning algorithms in context-sensing.  I believe that if both application
design and research begin seeing these as inseparable problems, then we begin developing context-sensing applications
that truly help individuals with the kind of self-reflection and self-monitoring needed for treating mental
illness such as those used in cognitive behavioral therapy.

My name is Shiyi Chen, originally from Chengdu, China. When I was in high school, I was so eager to see the world. Therefore, after I graduated, I went to Beijing for college. Initially I was in Economics but I was not sure about it. In the beginning of my third year, I had an opportunity to come to the U.S. as an exchange student at University of Colorado Denver. I seized the opportunity to explore my passion and talents by taking a variety of classes. With 70% scholarship, I studied abroad with Semester at Sea in 7 Mediterranean countries and there I tried philosophy and global studies. During my undergraduate years, I also worked as a research assistant and teaching assistant.  After all these extensive experiences, I realized a quantitative and computational field would be the best fit for me. My internship experiences with WealthTouch and Markit data solutions team reinforced my belief. I entered into MSiA program in September 2014. Finally I am pursuing something fancy and hot in the industry, big data and I have enjoyed it.I became interested in text analytics when Glassdoor contacted me about an internship position and asked me to do a text classification assignment. Back then I have signed contract with Motorola Mobility though Glassdoor project is interesting to me but I had no idea how to do it. During my summer intern, I encountered a mobile app categorization problem, which essentially is the same with the Glassdoor project. I had to educate myself through basic concepts and a couple of classification methods. Eventually I developed my own algorithm for the app categorization problem. The experience gave me one example of how text analytics can be tremendously helpful in real world business. Now I want to embrace it.In the future, I aim to be a domain expert in data science. I would want to focus my job on modeling problems and visualizing data. 
I was born in Michigan but raised in Greece, where I obtained my bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering with specialization in Industrial Engineering at the University of Patras. I wrote my thesis in Statistical Process Control as applied to a manufacturing operation. While studying I also worked as a researcher at the Stochastic Mechanical Systems & Automation Laboratory at the University of Patras. I worked on novel air traffic concepts, including aircraft position monitoring and prediction using Statistical Process Control, and Time Series Analysis.  Later on I also worked as a researcher at the Laboratory for Manufacturing Systems & Automation at the University of Patras, on a project focusing on software applications for advanced manufacturing. It was through these experiences that I discovered my interest in analytics and decided to further explore the field in the MSiA program at Northwestern. Im taking the text analytics class because Im also very interested in the application of analytics for text analysis and because it has become a very desirable skill to have too. I have a strong interest in statistical data analysis methods and their uses in business operations and I strongly believe in the value of data analysis and data-based decision making. Upon graduation, I want to specialize in the predictive analytics and machine learning field. I would prefer to work in the tech industry and I look forward to extend my career in the data science field.
Alan was born in Argentina but spent most of his youth in Iowa, after his family moved there when he was eight years old. As a kid, he spent much of his time playing soccer and tennis. He also enjoyed playing music and became an avid guitar player in high school. 

Alans first exposure to the field of text analytics came while pursuing his undergraduate degree in Economics and Management Information Systems at the University of Iowa, when he conducted research on unstructured data during a summer internship. Later in his undergraduate career, through another internship at Ernst & Young, he discovered an inclination for quantitative analysis and client-facing work.

Upon graduation, Alan continued in consulting and joined Accentures IT Strategy practice, where he worked on a variety of projects across industries  from devising metric scorecards for the CIO of a bank, to supporting a $1B systems implementation at a consumer products manufacturer. His time at these corporations, however, made him wonder why many effective private-sector practices were not more widely adopted by the government or the sector he was most passionate about: education.

This led Alan to pursue an Education Pioneers Fellowship at the Illinois Network of Charter Schools. In this role, he supported efforts to improve education policy by producing quantitative analyses for policy makers, media outlets, school leaders, and philanthropic foundations. He visualized school performance across Chicago community areas to lobby legislators, created maps to identify the best school districts for new schools, and even collaborated with researchers at the University of Chicago to determine the impact of various school models on student outcomes. This role helped him discover his passion for data science and motivated him to enroll in MSiA.

As a student in MSiA, Alan has most enjoyed his classes in machine learning (e.g. data mining, predictive analytics). This past summer, he applied these and other skills at an internship at the University of Chicagos Data Science for Social Good (DSSG) Fellowship. In this role, he worked with the World Bank to develop models for detecting collusion and fraud in international development projects; the Department of Labor to develop new metrics on local labor markets; and several school districts to identify which factors are most important for tracking students which are at risk for dropping out of high school and not completing through college. 

After graduation, Alan plans to pursue a data science or product management role. He is initially targeting the private sector, but is open to any organization that solves interesting problems and will invest in his professional development 

Originally from New York, Michelle moved to Pittsburgh to pursue a B.S. in Mathematical Science with a minor in Business Administration from Carnegie Mellon University.  After graduating from Carnegie Mellon University, Michelle began a career as a Systems Integration Consultant. As a consultant, she was able to work across many technologies and several different industries in both a technical and business capacity.  

For her first assignment, she fulfilled the role of a data quality analyst for a global insurance company in Hartford, Connecticut. Michelle was responsible for creating and monitoring data quality reports, in order to execute data remediation solutions to improve the usability of the data. Immediately following her role as a data quality analyst, Michelle focused on delivering a Pega Customer Relationship Management solution for a regional health insurance provider in Detroit, Michigan. As the integration and data architect, Michelle designed the flow of data from several sources to populate the front end of the CRM screens, as well as the communications that were required between Pega and the external integrated systems. Michelles most recent engagement was working with a diversified multinational mass media corporation in Burbank, California to research the current state of the clients data solutions across several business segments to create a unified data strategy, as well as a roadmap to provide direction for the implementation of the new organizational strategy.

While Michelle has gained valuable experience consulting, she is extremely excited to continue her academic journey in analytics. Given the important value that analytics can provide to a variety of industries, Michelle is looking forward to examining the statistical methods, models, and technologies in depth that support the data science and analytics fields, in order to improve efficiency, quality control, and profitability. Text analytics is an extremely important component in the field of data science.  Text analytics allows for the expansion from structured data analysis to unstructured analysis of web pages, documents, emails, etc. 

For the future, Michelle is looking to apply data science techniques to solve difficult business problems.  She is excited to be in the forefront of an innovative field.   
Alejandro Herrera- from Bogota, Colombia- I want to help business grow using analytics and I came to the program to have a technical foundation to do so.- Before the program I worked in a management consulting group within Schlumberger, the oilfield services company. I focused on strategy and operations related projects. I helped internal and external clients- I became interested in text analytics when I read a news story about a trading firm that uses sentiment analysis to make their business decisions.- Plans for the future are to be a world class business man
I am originally from an area called the Quad Cities, which is a very small
metropolitan area on the Mississippi River that includes cities in both Illinois
and Iowa. It is, I think, the only place that the Mississippi River runs
east-west. After graduating with a computer science degree from Bradley
University in Peoria, Illinois, I moved to Chicago to work as a software
developer. I became interested in pursuing a career that focused more on the
human elements of computing, so I left that job to pursue a Master's degree in
Information Architecture from Illinois Tech. It was during that time that I
became interested in continuing to do research into socio-technical systems,
which is how I ended up in the Technology and Social Behavior PhD program at
Northwestern. Given that I primarily study communication behavior on social
media platform, text analytics is an important methodology to me. While a lot of
research in my field focuses on qualitative methods, I think natural language
processing and text mining provides an alternative way to make sense of the
massive amount of data generated by social media sites. I think there are a lot
of interesting questions in this area that I could continue to pursue in an
academic career, but I also know a lot of people in my field end up in user
research roles in industry.

Brought up in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Ameer moved to his home country India to study Computer Science at the National Institute of Technology, Warangal. He developed a passion for machine learning during his undergraduate years through his internship at the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad, as well as on-campus research work. This interest inspired him to pursue an M.S. degree in Computer Science from KAUST, Saudi Arabia  a university as much devoted to technological innovation as it is to bringing social change in the conservative country.

After graduating, Ameer joined SABIC, a leading petrochemicals manufacturer, as a business intelligence analyst. During his two-and-a-half year stint, he designed data quality metrics and reports for key corporate functions, and led a cross-functional team to perform quantitative analysis of plant maintenance data for SABICs methanol unit, resulting in improved data quality and operational efficiency. Developing dynamic reports for a working capital optimization project, Ameer realized how descriptive analysis enabled efficient cash management across the organization. His motivation to seek a career in big data stems from its potential to transform the way businesses are run through informed decision making.

Through the MSiA program, Ameer seeks to develop skills in statistical modeling and data visualization. He is looking towards a career in the technology industry as a data scientist or in the consulting business as an analytics practitioner upon completion of the program.

Ameer's interest in text analytics stems from the explosion of interest in unstructured data emerging from social media and other platforms that can be augmented to provide more robust decision making, especially around marketing and customer analytics.
I am currently doing my phd in Industrial Engineering and management Sciences at Northwestern University. I obtained my bachelor and master degree in Industrial Engineering in South Korea, which means that my native language is Korean. During undergrad I was very interested in data analysis and statistics. This led me to continue to pursue master degree in field of applied statistics. My research during master degree is about quality improvement in semiconductor manufacturing process. I developed a statistic that can decide if there are serious defects in the production process. After obtaining master degree I started working at a car parts manufacturing company, a part of Hyundai motors group, in South Korea. My main job at work was to take care of the quality of the car parts that are exported to European countries. While I was working there, I realized that my knowledge is not sufficient and I would like to be specialized in a field. I decided to pursue phd. During my first year in graduate study at Northwestern University, I become more interested in optimization methodologies. To combine my interests in optimization and data analysis I started doing research that I solve optimization problems in the field of machine learning.  I am currently solving classification problems that incorporates Restricted Boltzmann Machine that is normally used to initialize weight in network models. To verify my methods, I consider many problems such as images and documents classification. When I deal with text data, I found that it is not easy to create feature vectors from unstructured text. Since I have limited knowledge about languages it was hard for me to understand concepts and vocabulary used in linguistics. In addition, I realized that text analytics is really important since the performance of the model is highly dependent on the extracted features. That is, even if I have a nice mathematical model accurate classification cannot be obtained without well-defined features. In this sense, I really need to know how to deal with text data. My goal regarding text analytics is to develop new mathematical models that works well in text as well as image data. Furthermore, I would like to develop new feature extractors that can be used for my math models.
I am originally from Cincinnati, Ohio. I enrolled in MSIA because of some experiences I had while working at Proctor & Gamble as a product researcher. I noticed that we collected lots of data, but there werent many people who could actually process and make sense of it. Prior to enrolling at Northwestern, I completed a PhD in experimental psychology. My research focused on the connection between perception, memory, and decision-making. My interest in text analytics began while I was conducting research, as I often had to parse key words from open-ended response questions. The process of extracting meaning from text turned out to be a lot more challenging (and interesting) than I had believed at the outset. Upon graduation, Ill be working at Nike WHQ in Beaverton, OR as a data scientist. I worked at Nike over the summer and it was a really fun place to be. Im looking forward to returning in January. 
My name is Xiang Li. I am originally from Chongqing, China. I did my undergrad at Purdue University and recently graduated at summer 2014. At Purdue University, I participated in a case competition within the School of Management as a teams data analyst. The competition enables us to address real-world problems for an ice-cream company and maximizing clients profit and market share. It was also the important project that I discovered that my passion lies in data analysis. After then, I decided to pursue a master in data analysis and found the MSiA program. Before this program, I did my undergraduate studies at Purdue University. I participated in a Hackathon. The Project we did was about sentiment analysis and analyzing relationship between article quality and positive review by audiences. It was a simple text analysis project. Therefore, I want to dive deeper in text analytics and get to know more techniques. My 3 year plan is to become a excellent data scientist. Let us just have fun!
MSiA Text Analytics - Hw0 - Luis Steven Lin

I am from Chicago, IL and completed my undergraduate degree at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. During my studies, I had the opportunity to gain consulting experience through various industrial and academic projects. In addition, I also had the opportunity to do internships with Fortune 500 companies and family-owned businesses in diverse industries ranging from paper, metal and telecommunication to airline, entertainment and transportation. However, a common theme during my academic and professional career was turning data into actionable insights. Although I found myself with a wealth of data at my fingertips, I felt limited by the sheer size and unstructured nature of the data.  I felt at the time that I didnt have a solid understanding of the mathematics and IT skills required to analyze complex data-related problems. 

My interest in the emerging field of Data Science and Analytics brought to the Master of Science in Analytics at Northwestern University. The opportunity to learn how to successfully leverage unstructured and user-generated data intrigues me. I believe there has never been a more exciting time in the world of data. We now have the capability and tools to use data like never before. I have always been curious about the underlying story behind the data. I find it fascinating how one can combine rigorous analysis and creativity to find relationships among variables, detect trends and spot patterns to uncover insights that are hidden within the data. 
One of the topics I am very interested is text analytics. With the growth of the Internet, mobile devices and increase interaction of people with technologies that generate data, analyzing text data has become a new valuable and rich source of data. For example, I have done projects were analyzing customer reviews (e.g. Yelp) provided additional insights that other sources of data did not. I have also worked on a project to automate question and answering system that was very interesting. I am very interesting in learning how to efficiently process text data and find creative uses. 
With the explosion of data generated by people across the globe and the development of the Internet of Things, I hope to use the knowledge and skills learned in the MSiA program to harness the data, create data-driven products and improve peoples lives. 

Ling 400  Text Analytics
Francisco Maravilla
Hw 0  Bio

	I am originally from Denver Colorado, a city which (I must submit as a clearly unbiased observer) is one of the finest in this great republic. I majored in Cognitive Psychology at Stanford University, with a focus in the cognitive sciences where I first had the opportunity to work with some of the topics well be dealing with in this class. In particular I was fascinated by the opportunity to use machine languages to understand and analyze the symbolic systems that are central to human cognition. I studied both the cognitive and discourse-focused aspects of human language, as well as the way computational  linguistics approaches some of these topics. After college I took a brief interlude working in clinical research for the Department of Veterans Affairs, back in Denver, though my interest in cognition and language didnt flag much. Ultimately after having pursued research for two years I recognized that answering my own research questions would be the most rewarding use of my time I decided to pursue a PhD in psychology. Given that some of the work of my college adviser, Lera Boroditsky, was influenced by her time working at Northwestern, I applied to work with Dedre Gentner studying the cognitive mechanisms behind language. 
	My interest in text analytics stems from a desire to increase the range and capability of my research. There are many techniques being used in psycholinguistic study, especially computational ones, which I havent had the opportunity to work with, and ones that my adviser is also relatively unfamiliar with. A healthy understanding of text analytics and the computational theories that make it possible can only serve to bolster my research abilities. On a personal note I also thoroughly enjoy the logical challenges designing programs presents. I have always been someone who loves puzzles and I consider many of the topics in machine learning simply complicated puzzles that demand answer. While ultimately I hope to make use of these techniques in my own research, I relish the opportunity to simply tackle a difficult topic.

I am currently in my third year at Northwestern, where I am getting a PhD in Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences. I grew up primarily in Kansas, in a suburb outside of Kansas City. Accordingly I am a big Kansas City Royals baseball fan, as well as a devout follower of the Kansas Jayhawks basketball team. I left Kansas for college, and since then have lived in Boston, Moscow, Madison, and (for the last 5 years) Chicago. Between finishing my undergraduate degree and starting my current program, I spent six years working in addition to finishing a masters degree. I had jobs with the Russian Academy of Sciences, the 2008 Obama campaign, and as a management consultant. My current research has nothing to do with text analytics. I am looking at the optimal pricing of electricity. Currently, most electricity retailers charge a flat rate per kilowatt hour to their residential customers. Slightly more complicated rates are charged to larger commercial and industrial customers. However, inefficiencies arise because the prices charged to consumers do not accurately reflect the cost to purchase the electricity from generators. Smarter pricing, combined with advanced metering infrastructure and smarter devices, would allow end-use consumers to respond to fluctuations in the cost. This has the potential to improve grid stability and, even more importantly, bring down peak demand, allowing us to avoid overbuilding capacity. However, I am interested in learning about the tools of text analytics for potential future projects. Separately, I am curious about potential applications of my field (optimization) in the field of linguistics. I am interested in languages; this has manifested in my study of Latin, Russian, Portuguese, and Spanish to varying degrees of fluency. I also like reading about historical linguistics and etymology. For instance, I was recently looking into mathematical models of language extinction. I have not looked seriously at computational linguistics, but am interested in reading more.
Born and raised in MN, but a California transplant since '99.  I graduated from UC Berkeley (Go Bears!) in 2001 with a degree in chemical engineering with an emphasis in biotech.  I spent a few years as an engineering consultant in the biotech industry, and then  after gradually turning from hobby to passion - in 2005 I made the jump to become a full-time Professional Poker Player.  I played poker mostly online, and in 2011 the government (effectively) shut down online poker in the US.  Knowing that I didn't want to go back into engineering for a career, I did some soul searching, and with the help of a friend discovered data science.  I took some courses on Coursera to see if this field would be something that I would enjoy and would be intellectually stimulating, and after really liking the coursework, started to apply to grad school programs.  I got accepted into the MSiA 2014-2015 cohort at Northwestern and the rest is history.  

I tend to do a lot of research when it comes to purchases, so naturally I have an interest in consumer analytics.  My medium term goal is to start up my own company in consumer analytics.  I have a growing list of ideas and hope to one day see (at least) one of them come to fruition.  A couple of my ideas would require text analytics (one very much so), and that is what has led me to Text Analytics as an elective.  I also could have used text analytics in my internship, and would like to have it as another skill in my arsenal as a data scientist. 

I work to live (not live to work), so I aim to be able to have a good work-life balance where I can still travel the world and go on new adventures.
I am from a small coastal town in south India. I graduated from IIT Madras in 2012 where I majored in Biotechnology.  I started my career with Cognizant Technology Solutions in their Analytics group where I worked with top pharmaceutical companies in the world in projects related to optimizing salesforce effort. After spending a year at Cognizant, I worked at an analytics consulting Start-up Company where I took on bigger responsibilities and worked on multiple challenging projects in various domains. I believe that the role of analytics will continue to grow and will soon become an integral part of every product and service. I felt the need to continue on the path of learning. I wanted to learn various statistical techniques and cutting edge technologies in depth. I like to work on stimulating and exciting problems. I think text analytics is very interesting and opens up new avenues to solve real life problems that werent easy to tackle before.  
Jung-Hee Oh Biography

I grew up in the Hudson Valley in New York and graduated from Wesleyan University with a B.A. in music. I then spent my professional life in  New York City after graduating. Much of this early era of my life doesnt have a lot to do with my interest in analytics, but a lot of it makes for very interesting dinner party conversation.I started the MSiA program after working at the Innocence Project, a non-profit organization dedicated to using DNA litigation to overturn wrongful convictions and implementing policy reforms to prevent further injustice. While serving as the Legal Operations Coordinator for the legal department there, I was tasked with implementing changes to the department's case management system due to the organization's growing need for data collection and analysis. This began my interest in the intersection of data analysis and the justice system. While I continued to work at the Innocence Project, I completed my second bachelor's degree in statistics at Hunter College. This background brought me to the MSiA program, where I wanted to learn more about the practical aspects and skills involved in applying data analysis.My interest in text analytics originated in my work in the legal field, where I spent much of my time with text documents and conducting projects primarily related to digesting large amounts of text or finding crucial and specific information from a large volume of text. I began to suspect that there could be more efficient ways of doing some of these projects, without knowing much of what was really technologically possible. Im still not entirely sure of the extent of whats possible and reliable in this application, but my capstone project and this class will help to start answering those questions.Im currently searching for a data science position in the Bay Area for life-after-MSIA. I hope to eventually return to public service work, but want to use my time immediately after graduation to gain experience at a company where data science is an essential part of its function and learn from those more experienced in this field.
Shantanu Raghav graduated from the University of Delhi with a Bachelor's degree in Mathematics in 2011. As the elected class representative and an active member of the Mathematics Society of college, he was able to organize several talks on topics like Linear Optimization Algorithms and Mathematical Modelling of the Factors Governing the Spread of Diseases Like Malaria, and these sessions made him realize the application that big data could have in almost all aspects of life around him  be it agriculture in his native village, or using big data to solve modern sciences healthcare problems.

After completing his undergraduate program, Shantanu headed straight into the field of analytics, and joined Mu Sigma Decision Sciences and, later, Accenture Consulting, where he got a chance to work for some of the top retailers in the world on projects which involved sales forecasting and customer segmentation. He got exposure to various analytical tools like SAS, SQL, Tableau, and R in this role and used them extensively in a wide variety of roles.

Having shown such a committed interest in the field of analytics, Shantanu decided to take his learning further by joining the MSiA program at Northwestern University. He hopes that this program will help him to be at the forefront of the changes that big data and analytics will bring in the future.


MSiA 490-20 / Ling 400: Homework 0
Student Name: Ahsan Rehman
Where youre from: I am originally from Pakistan, born in Islamabad the capital city of the country.
What brought you to your current graduate program (e.g., MSiA)  I strongly believe without the right analytic capability, the sheer volume of data and the complex system that house it, will simply increase cost and inefficiency with little insight. While with my practical experience coupled with the modern academic tools of analytics that I hope to gain during this Masters Degree, I can leverage the power of analytics to solve business and research problems aiming to quickly validate assumptions, providing the right statistical analysis and deliver flexible solutions for various business problems.
What did you do before this program: I graduated from the National University of Sciences and Technology, Pakistan with a Bachelors degree in Information Technology in 2012. As a student, I continuously probed different areas that appealed to me as potential areas of research. Hence, in addition to the standard courses offered in the program, I opted for research at the IBMs Linux Competency Center in the domain of business intelligence and advance analytics. The project I worked involved extensive use of data-mining techniques for stock price prediction and its relation with different economic variables. Later when it came to applying my interests professionally, I was fortunate enough to land himself with an offer from IBM. An industrial project on churn prediction and behavioral segmentation for a well-known Telco was about to commence, when I was asked to join the IBMs Advanced Analytics & Big Data competency. The core focus during this project remained on an in-depth analysis of the data for better pre-processing and using optimized predictive modeling techniques to improve overall model accuracy. Later I worked on some of the key assignments at IBM U.S.A which involved extensive unstructured data for Operational Analytics, some of the notable clients are listed in global 50 financial services corporations. All this professional work and past research has upsurge my passion for descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics using multiple statistical analysis, data mining and machine learning techniques.
When did you become interested in text analytics: At IBM a significant amount of my time was spent with unstructured data for analysis and modeling. The data could be in the form of customer comments or help desk tickets where I was required to identify chronic issues for high frequency tickets and problem/resolver groups from unstructured fields using text mining techniques like text cleansing, document classification and concept mining. This developed my interest to look deeper into different text analytical techniques which could better explain the context of this data.
What are your plans for the future: My target is to evolve systems which provide timely data analysis by offering a clear view of the present and a deeper insight into the future which can help companies in better strategy and planning.
Whatever else you want to include: Interested in cognitive analytics and exploring advanced topics/techniques in text analytics
Originally from a small town in central New England, Mike graduated from Brandeis University in 2007, where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree while completing a double major in Mathematics and Physics. In addition to his academics, during his time at Brandeis, Mike was also a four-year member of the Mens Varsity Soccer Team. Since completing his undergrad, Mike has experience as both an actuary and a professional online poker player. He began his actuarial career as an analyst in the Boston ofce of Milliman, an actuarial consulting rm. At Milliman, he employed mathematical and statistical methods to help build predictive models used primarily in support of reserve analyses for clients across a wide range of different industries. Mike has also worked as an analyst for John Hancock Financial, where he used similar techniques to estimate nancial reserves for John Hancocks variable annuities block of business. He has also passed Actuarial Exams P and FM.As an online poker player, Mike identied concepts from probability theory, combinatorics, inductive reasoning, and game theory that are relevant to card games, and integrated them to produce strategies that gave him an advantage over his opponents. While his undergraduate degree approached mathematics and statistics from a more theoretical standpoint, Mike was drawn to Northwesterns MSiA due to the applied nature of the program. He was especially attracted to the way it combines classroom study with industry supplied projects. He is looking forward to learning computational techniques such as data mining and machine learning, and hopes that combining these skills with his mathematics background will allow him to more effectively address a wider range of real-world problems. Broadly speaking, he is particularly interested in the way that data and analytics can be used to benet the social good.

My name is Yuan Sun. I am originally from Hunan province, central south part of China. I pursued my Bachelor of Science degree in Statistics at National University of Singapore (NUS). Upon graduating from NUS, I started to work as a Data Scientist at Singapore Telecommunications Limited (SingTel), one of the largest leading communications group worldwide. I then applied my knowledge in statistical theory and data analytics techniques to develop a series of predictive models to address the marketing challenges in business.

Working at the forefront of analytics within a dynamic and fast-growing team at SingTel, I have quickly built up foundational knowledge in a comprehensive portfolio of telecommunications services, such as voice and data solutions over wireless, Internet, and fixed platforms, and pay TV. In one of my core projects, I have developed mastery of churn propensity models, which are deeply integrated into customer retention management.

My interest in grasping more innovative analytics techniques and solutions has led me to pursue an advanced degree in analytics after working in SingTel for two years.  Through the MSiA at Northwestern University, I would like to continue growing my knowledge in machine learning, data mining and specifically acquire essential techniques to process large volume of structured and unstructured data to create actionable insights in the big data environment for businesses. 

I have enjoyed three wonderful quarters with the rest of the MSiA gamma cohorts, learnt great skills and met lots of friend here at Northwestern University. For my last quarter, I have picked Text Analytics as the special topic course because I have always been interested to know how to derive high-quality information to derive business decisions from the mess and massive text. On one hand, there are various real-world use cases applied in the tech industry. On the other hand, knowing the underlying processing principles also helps me to quickly master lots of the popular text-mining software. Through this course, I would like to develop expert knowledge in the text analytics techniques.


I am originally from Wuhan, the most populous city in Central China. I came to the United States to pursue an undergraduate education in 2009. I studied Accounting and Finance at the University of Illinois-Urbana Champaign (UIUC).
While an undergrad at UIUC, I served as a research assistant in the College of Business. In one Finance research group, my team needed to handle noisy stock transaction data. I took the initiative and developed a VBA program to clear the noises in the dataset and classify companies based on their IPO dates.I really enjoyed this experience of cleaning and analyzing data, as well as solving obstacles throughout the process. Thus, I decided to take advanced math and statistics courses, and to pursue a computer science minor. 
During my college years, I developed a strong interest in data analysis and statistical learning, so I decided to apply for the Master of Science in Analytics program at Northwestern. After graduating in December 2013, I started to work at an IT startup company, Cazoodle Inc., located in Champaign, IL. I designed and developed a customer relation system for the business team using Google script, a special version of Java Script.
Text analytics is an essential part of data analytics, since we are surrounding by tons of text data. The internet generate tremendous amount of text data daily in the format of news, reviews, and comments. I am interested to learn how to derive high-quality information from text and to explore the field of natural language processing. Thus, I choose text analytics as my elective.  
I am excited to gain more experience with large-scale data and take my analytical skills to the next level through completing the Master of Science in Analytics program. I am looking forward to working as a data scientist and exploring the diverse opportunities in this fast growing field.

##Daniel Tucker
##dmt944
##LING400 (FA2015)

According to venerable family tradition, I was raised by a solitary shewolf in the Adirondack Mountains of northern New York until my chance discovery by a rogue botanist at age 4. It took several years of supervised therapy, behavioral correction, and operant conditioning until the local school district relunctantly deemed me fit for normal human interaction. This much, at least, my parents contend to be true.

On a more serious note, I became interested in language -- and more generally, its scientific study -- as a sophomore at university. Due to some rather odd pre-collegiate educational circumstances that I will not elaborate on here, I did not encounter a "foreign language" until I took my first foreign language course during my second year as a college student. At that point, I became enthralled with the languages of the world, their structure, and their literary dimensions. After several additional academic turns (the details of which I do not have time to expound upon here), I settled at Northwestern University in pursuit of a PhD in linguistics.

I became interested in text analytics thanks to my education here at NU as methods of analyzing texts have figured prominently into both course projects and departmental milestones. Though most of my work to date has focused solely on static corpora, I do hope to expand to looking at more dynamic corpora (or better: corpora of languages that are still living!).

In the future, I hope to be outstanding in the field of excellence. In addition to pursuing my research interests in supervised and unsupervised language acquisition, I hope to apply insights from these domains to language learning curricula and technologies in some meaningful way.
My name is Igor. I moved to the Chicago area from Russia when I was four, and have lived here since. I knew that I was interested in 
analytics coming out of my undergraduate program in Economics at Northwestern, and I felt that the MSiA program would help me find a job
as a data scientist. Before the program I worked in consulting for two years. I became interseted in text analytics through the short introductions
to it we have had in other MSiA courses. In the future I plan to build some predictive models. 

Here is my resume:
Education
Master of Science in Analytics 	Expected December 2015	
	Northwestern University, McCormick School of Engineering, Evanston IL  
	GPA: 3.95/4.00
	Completed coursework includes: Statistical Methods, Data Mining, Predictive Analytics, Optimization & Heuristics, Java, Python, Hadoop
	Course Projects:
	Investigated the factors determining sales outcomes for a software product for GE Healthcare using logistic regression and other predictive modeling techniques
	Completed an 8-month industry practicum project investigating the factors determining paper vs. paperless billing uptake for We Energies
Bachelor of Arts in Economics	June 2012	
	Northwestern University, Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences, Evanston IL  
	Majors:  Economics and International Studies, Minor: Statistics
	Cumulative GPA: 3.45/4.00 
	Extra-Curricular: Treasurer at Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity  (March 2011  March 2012 )	
 

Professional Experience	
Nielsen  Data Science Intern 	June 2015  Present	
	Investigated Principal Component Analysis methodology used for Fusion of large datasets 
Beghou Consulting - Senior Analyst 	July 2013  August 2014
	Lead development of SAS and VBA code for an existing sales report in Excel delivered to over 1,500 users and communicated with the client to respond to their needs as necessary
	Assisted in a customer targeting project by maintaining and developing reports, processing data collected from a web based tool, and contributing to updates for the targeting model and to ad-hoc analysis. Investigated the effect of changing parameters on the model output.
Beghou Consulting - Analyst	July 2012  July 2013
	Maintained and developed VBA code for a sales report in Excel 
	Developed a Unix shell script for running SAS code on a client machine
Obama for America - Analytics Intern	January 2012  June 2012
	Assisted full time staff on the Statistical Modeling Team with constructing logistic regression models of voter turnout and support
	Collected government survey data and helped to build and validate statistical models
Northwestern University, School of Education and Social Policy - Research Assistant 	July 2010  October 2011
	Assisted with STATA programming to acquire and prepare data for projects investigating the effects of educational tracking on student outcomes and math instruction in elementary schools. 
 
Language
 Russian (Spoken: Fluent, Written/Read: Intermediate)	 Spanish (Spoken/Written/Read: Basic)      
Programming Skills
 VBA	 SAS        	Python	R	Hadoop
Unix/Shell	 STATA	 SQL    	 Java    	Spark

Hi Professor Bicknell, thank you very much to be with us for Text Analytics this quarter.

My name is Lily(Qian) Zhao and I am originally from Beijing, China. I came directly after got my bachelor degree in Electrical Engineering. My interest grew into data analytics when I was a research assistant at school using MATLAB to analyze data from dynamic electricity power system. For internship experience, I interned at Accenture, China Electric Power Institute and Micron Technology before yet no full time experience so far.

I got my first glimpse of text analytics when theres a new product came to the Chinese facebook four or five years ago, renren.com, where people could generate the key words of their social network and the font size indicated the frequency. 

I thought it was very cool yet that was it. Until recently (well, a few months ago) I started a series of data mining online courses from UIUC (https://www.coursera.org/specializations/datamining) There are two Text Analytics related courses: Text Retrieval and Search Engines / Text Mining and Analytics. I completed both and really liked the topics. The first one is more about the concept and the second one is more about application. In the second courses programming assignment, Yelp provided a (huge) dataset (with review, business info etc.) for the students to practice and I found it was quite cool to extract very much and valuable information out of the raw text. (Please refer to https://lilyqianz.files.wordpress.com/2015/09/coursera_datamining_wk1.pdf  for a sample of my homework )

As a fan of the bay area and a interest in analytics, I would love to start my career in data analytics in the SF bay area. And maybe I would get back to school for further education after a year or two of work.

For I am very interested in marrying visualization and text analytics, could you please give any recommendation for that? (books, paper or tools?) Thank you very much! I am very excited for this class!

where youre from
My name is Xiaofeng Zhu, a second year graduate student in computer science. I come from a small but beautiful coastal city in china. I went to a university very close to my hometown, after that applied the computer science master program of Northwestern University in 2013, and then was luckily switched to the Ph.D. program one year later. My current research focuses on text mining and knowledge management.

what brought you to your current graduate program (e.g., MSiA)?
The direct reason why I applied my current graduate program is that computer science was the only sophisticated subject I had been working on before I wanted to go abroad for further study, which means I basically had no other choice at that moment. Another stronger reason is that I was taught to find out prospective and challenging aspects of directing and/or teaching computers to handle things that are difficult for human beings.

what did you do before this program?
Nothing huge has happened to me till now. Before being enrolled into this program, I spent most of my time trying to become a professional student in order to get into Northwestern University. I started to get to know some common methods in data mining when I was a undergraduate student, but didnt narrow down my study field to text mining until I came to Northwestern University.

when did you become interested in text analytics?
I was once asked to do a question and answer web application for a course project using Watson API of which one core component is text analytics. Understanding the semantic meaning of text and being able to learn information automatically was so attracting that I felt in love with text analytics at first sight. Since then, I have been doing text analytics related projects for almost two years.

what are your plans for the future?
I will and would love to devote myself to the knowledge acquisition and semantic query research field no matter in industry or academia.

whatever else you want to include!
In general, I am a physically and mentally healthy person. Being dedicated and enjoying fun is always my life and study goal.
